Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
We respectfully invite all fellow practitioners to join hands and recite the
Buddha's sacred name, seeking his blessings.
Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni,
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni,
Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, regarding the
guidance on practice, this part of the practice will be explained again by the Venerable Master Hoan Quan.
Some parts may
already be known, but some
may be unknown. Therefore, the Venerable Master Hoan Quan
will provide specific guidance on
practice.
What is practice? Practice is correcting one's character
according to moral precepts, that is,
correcting one's character from
unwholesome to wholesome. Practice is
simply for self-improvement.
And what are the benefits of practicing self-improvement? The
benefit is the transformation of
karmic retribution and the accumulation of merit. Because practice is
the root of merit, a wholesome mind
will generate merit, while an unwholesome mind will
continue to create karma, and an unwholesome mind
will give rise to all
the suffering caused by the
unwholesome seeds sown in previous lives. For example, in the
sutra...  From the compassionate water-monitoring Dharma of Master Ngo Dat
Quoc Su, when he harbored a sense of arrogance,
he immediately suffered the consequences
of his evil deeds
nine lifetimes ago. He was an official who unjustly
beheaded the young rabbit.
Therefore, the practice of cultivation is about
stopping evil deeds so that we do not
create more evil karma and uproot
the suffering
caused by evil deeds from
past lives. What is the purpose of cultivation? To achieve
happiness. To generate
blessings, and those blessings come from
transforming the suffering from past lives,
stopping evil deeds in this life, and
cultivating good deeds. Therefore, we
receive good results in this life.
So, cultivation is about nurturing the roots of merit, which
we, our children, and our grandchildren will
enjoy.
Cultivation is for the benefit of oneself.
Therefore, cultivation is about
changing one's destiny and life. Cultivation
is about creating the roots of the
tree of blessings, watering the tree of blessings, and it will grow.
Cultivation creates blessings for oneself to
enjoy. That's what cultivation is for. So when someone
asks us why we cultivate, we just
need to answer: Cultivation is to transform all the
suffering caused by evil deeds in past lives. Cultivation
is to cultivate all good deeds
so that we may receive good results. Cultivation is to stop
all evil karma so that we won't suffer
evil consequences in the future. That's what cultivation is for. Cultivation is for
ourselves, for ourselves and
our families. In a
family, there are individual karma, meaning the
karma of each person, and collective karma, the karma
shared by the whole
family. Individual karma is reflected in the mind's complete contemplation.
For example, individual karma is being sick, needing
emergency care, or having a widespread illness – that's individual karma,
borne by the body.
Collective karma means the family has to take care of the patient and
spend money – that's collective karma.
If we cultivate and transform
our karma from being sick frequently to being sick less often,
then the collective karma is also transformed.
That is, in our family, if we are sick,
our family has to
take care of the patient and spend money.
Through cultivation, we transform
our karma and also transform the collective karma.  Shared
karma means that one's family members are not limited to just one person,
so it's called practicing for the benefit of one's family.
Therefore, when one person practices, the
whole family benefits; that's shared
karma. So, practitioners must understand the concepts of compassionate
karma and shared karma to be truly diligent.
Practice is to
transform one's karma, and when one transforms karma,
those connected to one will
also
transform their karma. Those one cares for will also transform their karma, and those who care for one will also inherit karma. This is called practicing to bring happiness to oneself and one's family. What is the purpose of practicing? Practice is to transform karmic forces, to
seek happiness for oneself and one's
family. Therefore, practitioners are wise and
understand this clearly, and they
actively practice. And
what methods are used for
practice? We change our minds and intentions;
whatever is in our minds and intentions, we must change
them. Anything that helps
us change our character and
purify our nature—all
those methods are...  This is called
a method of practice, a method of
purifying body and mind, a method of
increasing merit.
As Buddhist disciples,
we combine these
two practices: giving and observing
precepts. This
understanding of karma is what
we call having right view.
Right view means that all
sentient beings are governed by the cycle of
karma. If greed, hatred, and delusion are abundant, it
means suffering and rebirth. If greed, hatred, and delusion
are reduced, merit is gained. If greed, hatred,
and delusion are eradicated,
complete liberation from rebirth is achieved. Having
right
view, we must
practice to seek happiness. That means
we must practice giving and observing
precepts. Observing precepts means stopping evil, stopping
all evil deeds.
Giving means increasing
good
deeds,
increasing good deeds. Therefore,
if there is giving without observing precepts, that
giving leads to suffering.
Although there is merit, that merit is
not enough compared to the suffering
we will have to endure. That is called giving.  Giving
without upholding precepts leads to suffering. Giving
accompanied by deceit and the pursuit of
fame leads to self-destruction. Giving driven by greed,
arrogance, and deceit brings
suffering to oneself. Therefore,
our giving must be
accompanied by upholding precepts.
Our method of practice is giving while upholding precepts. Giving helps us
eliminate our negative karma
from many lifetimes. We have been greedy,
deceitful, and fraudulent, stealing from others.
Therefore, giving helps
us eliminate karma
quickly. As Buddhist disciples,
we use the giving of
fearlessness, the giving of relief from suffering, the giving of joy, and bringing the
Dharma to everyone so that they may
attain enlightenment. Because of enlightenment,
they will be happy. Therefore, we
use the giving of the Dharma, which means doing
everything that helps
others understand and practice the Dharma.  The
highest form of giving is giving, giving that brings
happiness to
everyone. Giving includes material giving, inner giving, and giving
without intention. Material giving
means giving money. Inner giving
means using our efforts,
and can even involve our blood, flesh, and
organs.
Fearless giving is helping others to be at peace, happy, and joyful, and
ultimately, helping others to attain
enlightenment and practice
enlightenment. This is combined with observing precepts and
practicing fearless giving.
Since we are lay people with limited financial resources,
we may not have much material giving. But we should
still try our best, and especially, fearless giving brings happiness and peace to others. We must strive and cultivate this practice so that
we can cultivate our roots of merit,
transform our karmic forces, and
attain
happiness. The saying "giving is receiving" means that if
we give, we
will receive the reward of merit. That is, the
giver...  Those who know how to take
back are the ones who don't know how to give;
they don't know what to take back for themselves,
not knowing what to take back for themselves throughout their lives.
There are people who give but take
back suffering, giving things that
blind people, things that
cause suffering, things that increase lust,
things that
lead people into ignorance of
karma, causing them to do unwholesome things. Giving
brings suffering, the karmic
consequences of suffering. But giving with
restraint brings
happiness. Therefore, we are people who
give to
receive, to receive the karmic reward. If
we don't know how to give, we
cannot receive the karmic reward. So, those who don't know how to give only
know how to squander their old blessings until they
run out, and then they suffer. For
example, if we don't know how to encourage others to
practice, if we don't know how to encourage others
to practice
karma, then we ourselves don't receive the
blessings, we
don't receive the blessings of good people helping us, we don't stop the
suffering from our
previous lives, and we suffer greatly.  We
suffer because our karma is very
heavy. Our individual karma is
already heavy, and then there's the
collective karma of our whole family, which is very heavy.
Therefore, we need to practice generosity and uphold the precepts to
transform this life of suffering, to lessen
the suffering, to reduce the worry.
Therefore, as lay Buddhist disciples,
we must strive diligently to
cultivate merit, seizing
every opportunity to build up our merit
alongside our economic activities and
family responsibilities. This will ensure that our family matters are
handled smoothly and efficiently because we have merit and are eliminating karma.
All
these practices are simply to help
reduce suffering in our lives. We want
our children to be more harmonious, our grandchildren to be
more harmonious, our finances to be less difficult, opportunities for
business to arise
more easily, and illnesses to be reduced. A
practitioner is
someone who seeks happiness in the
right way, that is, someone who knows how to make themselves
happy and how to lessen their
suffering. Therefore, this is the work of  In spiritual practice, giving
alms helps us transform
all greedy, selfish, wrong-minded, and
harmful thoughts. If, in a previous life,
we practiced evil deeds due to wrong views, then by
practicing right
views now, those evil karmic consequences will be
transformed and will not come to
us. With fewer evil karmic consequences,
our lives will be peaceful and
tranquil. Therefore, no one in this world can achieve karmic
transformation without practicing. Those who are
peaceful are those who practiced in their previous lives. Those who are
suffering now are those who
created evil karma in their previous lives. There is no
root of blessings that we cannot cultivate; we must
nurture and water the tree of
blessings so that it grows green and
flourishes. Therefore, we must
diligently contemplate and reflect. For example, if
[music]'s house
has a very hot yard, we must
plant a tree to provide
shade. To
plant a tree and have some
shade, we must spend time and money buying the seeds and materials.  The
soil needs to be cultivated; we spend
money on fertilizer, put in the effort to water it, and then
protect it when it's young. When it's young,
we have to shield it from the wind and
rain so it can grow. So
much effort is put into caring for it, and only then do we
have the shade to
enjoy. It's the same with our lives; we are suffering because of the karmic consequences of past lives. In this present life, we must actively strive to cultivate good deeds, practice generosity, and observe precepts. We must strive until the
tree grows strong, and provides some shade. Only then can
we find
peace. Initially, we are bound
by the karmic consequences of past lives, so
all our work
distracts us, leaving no time for
practice. We must understand that if we
want to change this, we must carefully manage
our time.
People say they're busy, but they're not that
busy. We still have time to browse
Facebook, we still have time to watch
TV, we still have time for other things.  Sometimes we sit around
chatting, sometimes we gossip. Actually,
people think they're busy, and if they think they're
not, then they're not busy.
We should reduce all the things that
create negative karma and add
things that create merit, not that
we're overly busy. However,
we must be enlightened, we must have
the
wisdom to practice,
we must clearly know that we
need blessings,
only then can we strive to practice. If
we encounter suffering and we cry out to heaven,
heaven won't give us anything; if we cry out to our
parents,
no one will give us anything,
because everyone bears their own karma.
Only we ourselves can transform
our own karma to
achieve happiness; that's what it means to be
enlightened. Only through our own efforts in
practicing good deeds, diligently observing
precepts, and giving alms can
we change
our destiny. No one else
can change it for us. For example,
bowing to the Buddha is also one way to change it.
Diligently focusing our minds and
respectfully teaching others,
helping others to attain enlightenment—
that is our effort, and
that effort will bring us happiness.
No one causes us suffering; it is
laziness in practicing good deeds and
diligently doing evil that causes us
suffering. We
must awaken to this, and only we can
bring ourselves happiness by
striving to eliminate
evil deeds and actively doing good deeds,
bringing enlightenment to ourselves
and others. Otherwise,
we cannot change, we
cannot ask anyone else to change. Whether our husband loves us or not is due to our own karma; whether
our children know how to love and be kind to
us is due to
our own karma;
whether
colleagues and friends love us is due to our own karma; whether our
business prospers is due to our own karma;
whether
others treat us well is due to
our own karma; whether others
harm us is due to our own karma.
Therefore, if we want to...  To do good deeds, one
must change their own karma, which is
generated by their body, speech, and mind. Therefore, the worst enemy to oneself
is
oneself, and the best enemy to oneself is also
oneself. Within us, there are
two
objects of mental insight. As I've said to
some fellow practitioners,
within us exist three characters: a
judge, a good person, and an
evil person. These two are constantly in
conflict, and the judge decides which side to take.
Our good and evil minds are these two characters, the
judge being our thinking and decision-making. Therefore, our thinking and decision-
making—this thinking and decision-making—determines whether we do good
or evil, whether we are lazy or practice diligently.
This judge will
decide what our lives will be like. Turn inward, correct your mind,
see where
you can give alms, and give alms, striving and
striving every minute and every second.  One way to
practice giving is to seek out those who still need
your help, because they
are the source of your merit.
Such people are called
wise people. If you abandon all those
who are hoping to receive merit
from you and need your help,
then you will not receive
any reward in return. Because you don't
give, you don't receive, and
therefore you suffer. Therefore, a wise person
must look around and see
who needs our help, help them attain
enlightenment, help them diligently practice good deeds.
We must seek out those who need help and reach out to
them, because reaching out to them
will bring us merit, as we have a place to
give. And you,
dear fellow practitioners, can see here
the mind's contemplation and connection in
this moment. For the
two Dharma centers and 41 groups, this is the mind's
contemplation and connection,
reaching out to those whom we can
give to,
generating merit and happiness for ourselves.
The mind's contemplation and connection does not seek out
those who...  The place where one squanders blessings through frivolous activities,
gossiping, and slandering others—that's
where
one's blessings are wasted. A mind that illuminates the path to enlightenment
seeks out esteemed fellow practitioners, seeking the
source of one's blessings, where they will receive
and one will be the giver.
This giving will in return bring
immense blessings. Therefore, a mind that illuminates the path to enlightenment seeks
out esteemed fellow practitioners.
Our Buddha was also like that;
he always sought out sentient beings to save them,
so he had immeasurable and boundless blessings beyond comprehension. A truly enlightened person
is one who knows how to cultivate to seek
happiness; a truly enlightened person is one who strives to give alms and observe
precepts to seek happiness. That is called a
wise person. What is the purpose of cultivation? Cultivating to seek
happiness. What is the method of cultivation? Striving
to observe precepts to stop karma; striving to give alms; observing precepts
to stop karma and transform karma;
seeking happiness for oneself and for
one's loved ones; making one
's present life less difficult, making everything
easier, less evil, so that
one can still live and breathe. Otherwise,
we will be suffocated.  Because of the
evil consequences and suffering caused by the evil deeds
we committed in past lives, and to avoid
the evil consequences and suffering caused by the evil deeds
we might commit in this life if
we don't practice
[music] [
Applause]
[music]
K